Shawn Phalen: Me.
Randy McWilliams: Show.
Shawn Phalen: How are you, I'm
Randy McWilliams: Doing. Okay, good to see
Randy McWilliams: What's the good word. Well, everything's going well I think everything
Randy McWilliams: You know, in terms of
Randy McWilliams: School and job are still going while
Randy McWilliams: I'm still living in this sober living house, which has been really good.
Randy McWilliams: For me,
Randy McWilliams: Back.
Randy McWilliams: I had an incident last night.
Randy McWilliams: With this new roommate who had moved in two days ago and moved in and
Randy McWilliams: Just smell really really bad. The order was really adding they reminded me of some of the folks I work with it the shelter and I just really politely started talking to them and suggest that you might
Randy McWilliams: You know, he was a little ripe and might want to just clean up here at the house and stuff like that was to go. And then last night.
Randy McWilliams: at 2AM. He just starts blaring like this. Death Metal music and get he got up and wanted to start a fight, you know, saying, I'm up and stuff that was just really
Randy McWilliams: It really threw me off.
Randy McWilliams: And put my head in this weird space, obviously.
Randy McWilliams: All night. But then, of course, I'm thinking about it all day. You know, I'm just replaying it so I just kind of
Randy McWilliams: I think it's a good reminder
Randy McWilliams: You know how you know unpredictable things might throw you off.
Randy McWilliams: Handle really unpredictable things that really might shake you up.
Randy McWilliams: Needless to say, I got home here today, and they told me the guy was discharged and stuff like that so
Randy McWilliams: Yeah.
Randy McWilliams: Yeah, you know, I just
Randy McWilliams: I don't. My instinct. Last night was to get furious.
Randy McWilliams: But I didn't, I just tried to ignore him. And you know he didn't. He didn't do anything. You know, to physically touch me or anything just kept talking and talking talking like you must have been
Randy McWilliams: Tweaking he probably got his hands on something, but
Randy McWilliams: You know,
Randy McWilliams: It's really had to practice a lot of just calming kind of techniques. A lot of breathing today.
Randy McWilliams: And are trying to redirect my thoughts to, you know,
Randy McWilliams: Work and things that matter. And, you know, not let it really upset my mood or anything like that. It's just so crazy.
Randy McWilliams: But that's really the only crazy thing that happened works going well they switched my job there again so
Randy McWilliams: On doing pretty much the same as I always have just kind of entitle
Randy McWilliams: And hopefully getting a raise. So that'll help
Randy McWilliams: And I did here today in regard to my field placement. This threw me off to because the guy, the clinical supervisor told me that he may not be able to take my schools students from St. Mary's because St. Mary's as a program is requiring
Randy McWilliams: Take supervision.
Randy McWilliams: And he said, just on principle, he wouldn't be doing that and would have to stop partnership and school
Randy McWilliams: So I'm, I'm really hoping I can do it there and he suggested I kind of lobby to the to the staff about doing it without that. So I'm hoping I can. That's kind of what I want to take my
Randy McWilliams: You know, my professional trajectory toward this work at this point and
Randy McWilliams: You know, if I can't do it there. Then I'll, I'll find someplace else and just utilize that training toward where I'm working, you know, if I want to continue in in this field, so
Randy McWilliams: You know, I guess it's so this is just kind of a lesson on today on how to redirect the hands for the good.
Randy McWilliams: You know, so
Shawn Phalen: It's not a new thing that they've started
Randy McWilliams: Yeah, the tape supervision.
Randy McWilliams: Really covers and it's out of need. According to my supervisor or my supervisor told me that
Randy McWilliams: It is new brand new to the school. I hadn't even heard of it. And I guess they were pushing for it last year but at the last minute, they didn't
Randy McWilliams: So he took some interns for this season, but he got word just today that they were going to require it. And he said that he hadn't heard of any other
Randy McWilliams: Program that he's ever dealt with requiring tape supervision some
Randy McWilliams: That seems so strange. Do you know
Shawn Phalen: Words of super like what's the point
Randy McWilliams: Five people full time to be going over these tapes and right i would you require that when your supervisors already licensed and right i i find that absurd. Yeah. And that's exactly his stance was
Randy McWilliams: You know, he feels just on principle. It's kind of absurd from his point of view to
Randy McWilliams: You know, be taped in something that you know he's a licensed professional to do is they don't he feels like almost like there.
Randy McWilliams: Are there. Who are they, who are they, reviewing here the clinician or the trainee so
Randy McWilliams: I think it's, you know, I'm not experienced enough obviously at all in the field or have any enough anywhere near enough clinical training to speak on it.
Randy McWilliams: But it just seems to me on its face that it is a little absurd to make license Clin why even bother doing it, why not just do all mock trainings at the school with licensed people and not require field placement at all, except that the hours are required by the BBS
Randy McWilliams: So it's, it's worth 3000 hours.
Randy McWilliams: It is 3000 hours now. So
Randy McWilliams: You know, hopefully I won't have to go out and try to find some place new so just so perfect, because it's where, like I said, I want to be.
Randy McWilliams: You know ultimately be working and maybe even on this man's team down the road, but
Randy McWilliams: So it would be just so perfect.
Randy McWilliams: Really throw a wrench in the plans.
Randy McWilliams: But if it happens. It happens right
Randy McWilliams: Because, you know, because it's a full time job. So you working 40 hours a week, so right.
To get every week and would count towards your, you know, towards getting
Randy McWilliams: You know, getting your hours right
Shawn Phalen: You know, to get those hours finished within like a year and a half or so.
Shawn Phalen: Right at least a 40 hour
You know, a job.
Randy McWilliams: These hours. Right. That's about as quick as you can get it done right and 40 hours a week and about a year and a half to two years about is
Randy McWilliams: It would be ideal. And you also want to think about going over the hours.
Randy McWilliams: That are required because, you know, there's the
Shawn Phalen: You know Murphy's Law. It's one of those things where, you know, you just kind of, you just you something can always happen and at least you have that padding and
Randy McWilliams: All right, you know, that's what I did. So I made sure that I was well over 3000 hours and I needed.
Randy McWilliams: It consciously or I needed that because there were
Shawn Phalen: 500 hours that they weren't going to take because they said that my supervisor wasn't nice.
Randy McWilliams: Wow. Yeah. No, you know, just, just FYI. That's a great, that's a great point. I appreciate you saying that because, you know, I was kind of doing some research on the tape supervision thing.
Randy McWilliams: From the perspective of the BBS and there's nothing on there about that, but of course they change things from year to year. Sometimes
Randy McWilliams: Right.
Randy McWilliams: So, absolutely, they could all the sudden require 500 more hours and from a specific population or or whatever. So I think as many hours as you can do. I wish I could
Randy McWilliams: You know, transfer some of the work I'm doing now over but obviously you have to be at a certain place in the master's program before you're
Randy McWilliams: Eligible for that in the training so
Randy McWilliams: Yeah, I think in this would be such the ideal, this would be like the perfect scenario for coasting through to get the hours.
Randy McWilliams: So, but if not,
Shawn Phalen: You
Shawn Phalen: Know, something will have come at you know you just have to. Yeah. You know, you just have to know this something
Randy McWilliams: I think that the, you know what, hopefully, the good thing, even if it does that, that is required. I guess I could look at it from the standpoint of, it's only a years or the training hours.
Randy McWilliams: If I have to do that somewhere else. That's, I can make that work. And then once that's over.
Randy McWilliams: And I get my degree, but that I'm still required to get 3000 hours for licensure, then I could go back to the place I work to do the hours there. So I guess it'll work out. Either way, we'll say
Shawn Phalen: You need to get is it so right now because you're in school, you need a certain amount of hours to graduate. Right.
Randy McWilliams: That's right. Yeah. And I forgot the exact number 900 or something. Yeah, it's like six or seven or something.
Randy McWilliams: Okay, yeah.
Randy McWilliams: So, you know, if I have to get that from somewhere else and I can make that work.
Shawn Phalen: Yeah, you know. Okay, so you're right you can because I'm
Shawn Phalen: So that would be like you figure about 500 600 hours is about once a week.
For about. Yeah.
Randy McWilliams: Exactly. So even if you found something that you could do.
Randy McWilliams: One day, maybe two days a week. Right.
Randy McWilliams: You're still okay i think that's absolutely true.
Randy McWilliams: And I know. Yeah. And I know that there's. Yeah, it's definitely not my first instinct is like, oh my god, it's gonna throw everything off but
Randy McWilliams: You know, it's not like I'm having to do this.
Randy McWilliams: For the whole 3000 hours. It's only a very small part of it for a limited time
Randy McWilliams: You know, like you just said, Great suggestion I can pick up a day or two that another agency and then go back to my agency after graduation and finish the hours so right.
Shawn Phalen: I think I did it.
Shawn Phalen: I did it one day a week.
Shawn Phalen: You know, it was for the whole day.
Shawn Phalen: And then you had super
Randy McWilliams: Towards and so I I've been out those hours.
Randy McWilliams: Oh wow yeah no for the field placement. Yeah, I think that's right. It I believe it starts in
Randy McWilliams: September and ends in June or July or something like that. So it's just under a year.
Randy McWilliams: That's the way they have the program set up like you're talking about to to get those hours done in that amount of time.
Shawn Phalen: And there has to be plenty of places right i mean
Randy McWilliams: There are there really are. There's some
Randy McWilliams: We, you know, when I went to the training for getting the field placement. They of course handed us a book of resources and contacts for different agencies all over the Bay Area. So yeah, there's hundreds and hundreds of places.
Randy McWilliams: To request this from you know and varying degrees of, you know, what they do.
Randy McWilliams: So there's no doubt I can find something I've been talking to my colleagues and my classmates and
Randy McWilliams: You know everybody's panicking, where is it, where am I going to get it. Am I gonna be able to find it. But everyone seemed to been able to find something somewhere.
Shawn Phalen: I mean, the school has to like they have to. There has to be enough place.
Randy McWilliams: You know, like, you know, so all right and
Randy McWilliams: You know,
Randy McWilliams: Sorry. I didn't mean to cut you off there. You're right. No help you, you know, they want you to graduate. Obviously so.
Shawn Phalen: You know that's you'll be okay. Keep your options open.
Randy McWilliams: That's exactly right. And that's what this guy was saying to is just apply to a bunch of different places, just in case you can't get around the tape thing. And it's interesting. You were saying that
Randy McWilliams: And it's true. They have to have enough places but you know I think my school. And I think a lot of other programs are starting to admit, more people in class sizes are getting bigger demands growing and
Randy McWilliams: For the profession and so lot more people are getting into this and the class sizes have gone from like 12 my first year to like 26 now.
Randy McWilliams: People per class. So they're just really starting to stream in
Shawn Phalen: Yeah, so I think what happened is, you know, when the economy crashed alive faces closed.
Randy McWilliams: Right now that you know things are getting a little bit better. And he cares expanding release healthcare's always good in California. All right. Are you getting
Randy McWilliams: MIT license or yes yeah yeah so you know there's there's always. I mean, that's a li mo basically a California license. Right. So, that's right, yeah. So there's, you know, the school has to make sure that there are enough places for
Randy McWilliams: Get
Shawn Phalen: If there's not, they have to disclose on the phone and
Randy McWilliams: Oh yeah, absolutely. You're right about that and
Randy McWilliams: That's one thing about the tape supervision. So it seems to be a new phenomenon from the school.
Randy McWilliams: That they may be losing more and more agencies to partner with with that requirement.
Randy McWilliams: You so you know I'm hoping that that doesn't happen. I'll be because I'm figuring, you know, if one clinical supervisor from one county agency is saying no than many other county agencies probably will, too, and
Randy McWilliams: You know, so it's really at the discretion of the clinical supervisor to say yes or no, I can't. They can't require it. Who are you, right, in San Francisco right outside the Bay Area in Walnut Creek, which is 25 miles out. Yeah.
Randy McWilliams: Okay.
Shawn Phalen: Yeah, so just keep your options open.
You know something on nothing will come in and you know that guy got discharged. So you don't have to go
Randy McWilliams: Meetings, the meetings are going really well i i went to three last week, I'm still talking to my sponsor. I'm doing a lot of step 11 or which is the
Randy McWilliams: You know, consistent meditation or for some people, prayer.
Randy McWilliams: Been doing kind of a little mix of both. I've been going to more and more leaves unity center church functions with my girlfriend, which are more much more spiritual based
Randy McWilliams: Things you know a lot I shared with you a lot of Reiki kind of stuff and
Randy McWilliams: You know, the main thing about that those things is you know whether or not you believe in kind of the metaphysical side of some of those therapies.
Randy McWilliams: Is just soothing. They're really soothing. They're really positive kind of message of peace and tranquility and you I that's exactly what I need to hear. So, you know, the crystals and all that stuff. I mean,
Shawn Phalen: You know,
Precarious
Randy McWilliams: God, I know it's
Randy McWilliams: Good people that know what they're doing there, you know. They do a really there. You know, you don't have a bunch of fake key people trying to pull it off, you've got
Randy McWilliams: 30 plus years when it wasn't even popular well now it's true. And I'm and I'm constantly
Randy McWilliams: surprised at you know how much more research is done on the actual
Randy McWilliams: You know, serious scientific properties of the energy transference of crystals and stuff. I mean, more and more. One of the biggest
Randy McWilliams: Teachers and kind of, I don't know if he would be called a guru or whatever at this unity Center is a physicist UC graduate a UC Berkeley physicist and he said that he got into the crystal thing. You know, when he was younger and there's just
Randy McWilliams: That you can't deny the, the force, if you will, of energy transference of different crystals for different chakras and all that. It's fascinating. It's really fascinating.
Shawn Phalen: And there's some really good books on your chakra centers.
Randy McWilliams: You know how energy gets trapped in your chakra centers and how you try, it's all true.
Shawn Phalen: Kundalini Yoga is also a really good one for all of that. So if you're ever in you know if you ever feel like Googling and it's it's really amazing.
Randy McWilliams: Yeah, got Ching, and
Randy McWilliams: That's great. I love it. That's great. It is it all helps you know
Shawn Phalen: You're feeling really pretty solid in your Spidey so
Randy McWilliams: I'm showing really solid in my sobriety I ma
Randy McWilliams: You know things come up like these situations that happened, whether it's this crazy thing here at the house or getting a bit of bad news that might change plans. It's just really learning how to redirect.
Randy McWilliams: Money my old
Randy McWilliams: You know my really set ways of catastrophizing yeah and I mean that is just what I've done for decades and
Randy McWilliams: I'm just really staying aware of it. This term because even in the past when I thought I was doing well and had a little bit of time under my belt.
Randy McWilliams: something would happen. And I would just go to F it and throw it all away. And so I'm just really trying to stay work on staying balanced and centered and when something happens just going back to the center. Stay grounded.
Randy McWilliams: And keep moving forward. It's working so far.
Randy McWilliams: I've been lucky to have a lot of great support.
Randy McWilliams: Including you, and everyone here at the program so
Randy McWilliams: Yeah.
Shawn Phalen: Okay, so let's um
Shawn Phalen: What do you think in like I think you can do like once a month.
Randy McWilliams: Don't work. Sure. Works for me and Frank you're doing
Shawn Phalen: Okay, so let's do you want to do march 2 530 again.
Randy McWilliams: That's perfect. Okay, perfect.
Well keep
Keep doing what you're doing.
Randy McWilliams: And
Shawn Phalen: You know,
Shawn Phalen: You
So, well, you can so far.
Randy McWilliams: Yeah.
Randy McWilliams: Be really proud of yourself.
Randy McWilliams: Just keep on the same track doing everything you're doing okay. Yeah. Well, I appreciate that. All right, well,
Shawn Phalen: I'm really great night.
Randy McWilliams: I'll see you tomorrow. Take care.